>> Francesca Sadikin: So
in our last story,
we explored how building relationships of
trust with the people we work with can
open up more opportunities and
accelerate career growth.
But I found that trust isn't just key to
creating opportunities, it's also super
important for executing effectively
once those opportunities come your way.
Okay, I've learned that the same soft
skills, empathy, active listening and
genuine care for others not only
help build these relationships, but
also makes you more effective engineers.
So I'm gonna share how I learned this in
two different experiences in my career.
So, this mental trap that
I show you on the slide,
good solutions speak for themselves.
I feel like this is a very common
mental trap that engineers fall into
essentially getting so caught up in
the technical aspects of a project
that we lose sight of its real purpose.
And this trap can happen In both personal
and corporate projects where even
with significant time like resources
like many, many, many engineers.
And tons of money invested the final
product may end up unused because it
doesn't solve the actual problem.
The reason is it's a shallow
understanding of what users truly need.
So I learned this lesson
the hard way early in my career.
I was part of a project where our team was
tasked with building a series of tools for
admins to manage their
educational program.
In particular, one of the tools I was most
excited about would solve how admins,
for spending hours manually sorting
students into groups using Excel.
And I designed this really cool
[LAUGH] solution that even now I still
think is so cool.
It looks exactly like this,
it's a drag and drop system, and
I implemented it perfectly.
It looked perfect but
When I launched this tool,
I realized a huge mistake for context.
I have a background in design.
I've spent many years thinking about
users, but in all of my excitement
in building this tool, I completely
overlooked the basics of involving
the actual users, the admins And
the students while I was building this.
So we made assumptions based
on what we thought was needed.
We just heard you need a portal and
a dashboard and
a tool to help you sort it right?
Cool, we'll build that.
That's literally the type of
conversation [LAUGH] we had.
We did not check back in, and as a result.
When it was time to launch,
our results reflected our approach,
which is no one used it,
the only users were us.
And this project, which was meant
to serve admins and students,
failed essentially because we didn't
bother to actually understand them.
This experience was
a really painful lesson,
because we spent nine months building
all of this with nothing to show for it.
So it showed me that building technically
excellent solutions is
only half the battle.
Really, the most important part is
actually understanding who you're
building for and what do they need.
This is where so many engineers go wrong,
pushing out technically impressive work
that doesn't solve anyone's problems.
I'll pause here, what do you guys think?
Do you relate to it?
Agree, disagree?
Lot of head nods.
We've all made this mistake.
And sadly we still continue to make it
in corporate settings too, [LAUGH].
>> Participant: So did you come up
with a solution that users did use?
>> Francesca Sadikin: No,
my time was done there.
[LAUGH] Was there another question?
Go ahead.
>> Participant 2: As a consultant,
I find that holds true for oftentimes
people looking to create an initial
idea like you have a start up idea.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes.
>> Participant 2: And
they they wanna build it.
And a part of me wants to just
take the money and build it,
and then another part,
which is the authentic version of me.
During that first meeting,
I always have to bring up these
questions to see whether it's
test users or user base in mind.
And how these individuals
who they're building it for,
they've talked to them to see if this
is actually a viable thing or not.
>> Francesca Sadikin: I think
the authentic version of yourself would
actually make you an even better
consultant if you went that way, right?
But it does require a lot
of the persuasion skills.
Is of like first listening
to their concerns and
then being able to persuasively like
lead them in a different direction
that actually still solves what
they're looking for, right?
But yeah, I like kinda what
you're saying is that sometimes I
think engineers think
they just are the coders.
But if we just code,
we're then letting ourselves just
be code monkeys, [LAUGH] right?
So to really be a great partner,
I think, with product owners and
design, that is part of their
role to be researching it.
But I think we have a part in showing up
as our technical experience in our roles,
and just be, are you sure that's
how you want to accomplish that.
Or you can be an equal voice
to give your opinions, to see,
is this really the direction
that we want to go to?
Because, I think, because we have
the technical experience and
we have to translate their
requests into implementations.
They're also lacking experience in
knowing what's actually reasonable and
what's possible.
And maybe there was
a different way to achieve it.
And so these are great opinions that we
can offer to them as different solutions.
>> Participant 3: And sometimes,
especially with startups,
even if your gut or
intuition is saying it's not gonna work,
maybe an iteration of that
idea will actually work.
So sometimes it's your
responsibility to say, well,
I'm gonna do the best I can with this.
Put it out there and who knows?
Maybe they know something about
the customer or the audience that I don't.
And suddenly that feature
is actually used a ton.
So in a way,
you have to kind of balance both sides.
>> Francesca Sadikin: It's the agile way
where, right, we just try to push out
the minimum amount first,
the one with the least amount of effort.
Put it in front of real users and see
what they actually say and then iterate,
which I actually talk
about in the next story.